## For former Windows Users
[Complete PC to Mac Help](https://www.apple.com/support/macbasics/pctomac/)

  -  Desktop and Finder: You'll easily recognize the desktop on your screen, where you can store icons for files and folders, in particular your "Macintosh HD" drive icon. But the differences from Windows quickly become apparent. First, icons flow from the top right down, instead of the top left. There's a dock full of icons on the bottom, which is similar in ways to the Windows taskbar. The top edge of the desktop has a bar running all the way across that changes settings depending on the program you open—this is where you access menus that in Windows would be part of each individual program window. On the right side of that bar, however, are some permanent MacOS System Tools. The Finder is the MacOS equivalent of Windows Explorer, for finding files and folders to work with.
  -  Installing Programs: Instead of double clicking on a .EXE file like you do in Windows and then watching the installation program copy files to who-knows-where on your hard disk drive, the Mac makes it simple. The installation files typically end with .DMG; to call it an "installation" file is a bit erroneous however. It is just a disk-image distribution file, with the application inside. The better DMG files will, when double-clicked, show a graphical Finder short cut to indicate that you should copy the application file to your Applications folder on the Mac. If it doesn't, you can manually go to your Macintosh HD, look for Applications, and put it in the folder yourself. If you want the new app on the dock at the bottom of the Mac desktop, just drag one from the Applications folder.
  - Uninstalling Programs: Again, simplicity rules. Instead of using a control panel to find and uninstall programs, like you must do on Windows, you can just go into Applications, find the program you no longer want, and drag it to the trash.
  -  Closing, Maximizing, and Minimizing: In Windows, all the controls for closing, maximizing, and minimizing a window are on the upper right. On the MacOS, they're color coded round buttons on the upper left and they don't work the same as the Windows tools. For example, the green expand button on MacOS doesn't make a window go full-screen unless the contents of the window need that much screen real estate. To go full screen, you need to drag a window to the upper left, then "pull" on its lower right corner. Or download a program like Right Zoom to force windows to zoom the same way as the Windows maximize function.
  -  Input Madness: Undoubtedly, the hardest thing about adjusting to the Mac will be using the keyboard and mouse. On a Windows keyboard, you'd typically pair the Cntl key with letters to make a shortcut (Ctrl+C to copy, Ctrl+X to cut, Ctrl+V to paste, for example). The letters are equivalent for Mac shortcuts, but instead of using the "control" key (as Apple calls it), you use "command" key. That might not be that hard to master, except command is right next to the space bar, where the Alt key is found on typical Windows keyboard. It will require some practice to overcome your fingers' natural desire to hit certain keys. You can find a full list of MacOS keyboard shortcuts online.
  -  No Right Click: The old-style Apple-provided mouse didn't even have buttons—the entire mouse was the button. So how do you "right-click" if you're using an older mouse? First, when you click, hold it down and wait just wait, and a contextual menu will appear, if appropriate. The other option: put to fingers on the Mac track pad and then click. That brings up the contextual menu instantly. The latest Apple Magic Mouse is like a multi-finger touch-pad on top, including a spot to right click, so if you get a new Mac, you can get access easily.
  -  Cntl+Alt+Delete Equivalents: You use that magic keystroke to do a lot in Windows, but it doesn't do anything on the MacOS. If you want to force an application to quit, you use Option+Shift+Command+Esc and hold for three seconds (use Option+Command+Esc to get a list of all running apps) or select Force Quite from the Apple menu in the upper left. If you want to check things like RAM usage, you access the Activity Monitor by going to the Programs menu then the Utilities folders.
